[Music]
the German artist sculptor and
photographer Hans belmer has offered the
public something that in many ways could
be seen as one of the most challenging
and divisive explorations of a human
body that has emerged into the art world
so far active during the tumultuous mid
20th century Hans belma remains a
captivating and controversial figure
whose art continues to spark debate and
Intrigue while primarily celebrated for
his iconic life-sized dolls and the
evocative photographs he took of them
belma's artistic output extended Beyond
this singular Focus encompassing
drawings prints and writings that
collectively offer a profound and often
unsettling analysis of the flesh or more
specifically the female
anatomy driven by complex web of
personal and historical influences
belma's work delves into the darkest
recesses of a subconscious often
touching upon themes of eroticism
fetishism and The
Uncanny each piece of art he would
create would serve as his own personal
therapy often boldly objectifying
abusive relationships exploring his own
darkest fantasies and projecting the
essence of his deepest desire for women
in addition his art both gruesome and
alluring is often interpreted as a
defined response to the oppressive Nazi
regime under which he lived as well as a
personal Rebellion against his own
traumatic childhood
experiences belma's fascination with a
fragmented and disjointed female form as
exemplified in his meticulously
constructed dolls and later a real
female body of his lover towards the end
of his life challenges conventual
Notions of beauty and gender rep
presentation through his unique artistic
lens the body becomes a sight of both
desire and anxiety simultaneously
alluring and
grotesque this complex and multifaceted
approach to the human figure has
solidified bma's place as a standout
figure within the surrealist art
movements and a Pioneer in the
exploration of the subconscious through
ART but this video is going to be ever
so slightly different from my usual
Style today we're going to be taking
another approach to exploring the life
and artwork of this particular artist by
analyzing some examples of works that
may have even crossed the line between
artistic expression and simply using it
as a means to fulfill the artist's most
let's just say for now unhinged
fantasies it's not often that I walk
away from dark themed art asking myself
these sort of questions but I thought
it'd be an interesting subject of debate
to cover this time around
but I should also quickly mention that a
great deal of the subjects and imagery
discussed in this video are extremely
sensitive and shocking so I want to
leave a friendly warning to those
watching that this may be too disturbing
for certain viewers of course if you're
all for it then feel free to get
comfortable and watch on but just don't
say I didn't warn you please be sure to
subscribe and hit the notification Bell
if you want to see more videos like this
I explore the weird and wonderful side
of the art world
welcome to another video my friends this
is a story and artwork of Hans
[Music]
bmer Hans belmer was born in ctz Germany
now ctz Poland In
1902 according to biographical accounts
belma spent the majority of his adult
life working through childhood trauma
after living what most of us would say
was far from a normal
childhood this stemmed primarily from a
lack of affection from his father both
to him and his brother stating that
natural childish play was forbidden
under his father's cold Shadow as belmer
described
it belmer initially studied engineering
to appease his authoritarian father
however his true passion lay in art he
eventually abandoned his engineering
studies and started working as a graphic
designer and illustrator in Berlin
during the
1920s when looking into his history this
decision was far more of a rebellious
act towards his father rather than a
pursuit of his creative goals when in
the full swing of his eventual art
career his hatred towards his father had
become so obsessive that he wasted no
opportunity in interviews and writings
to emphasize this evil spell his father
had cast over his life
even stating that his quote unquote
father issues would have made him a
perfect case study for Sigman
Freud it's been documented that belmer
also briefly took an early interest in
crossdressing believing it reflected a
curiosity about being a woman this would
also be considered his earliest sexual
interest in girls and an opportunity to
lash out at his father as biographer Sue
Taylor reports quote he deliberately
sent his father into a seizure by
powdering his face and wearing lipstick
end quote now I don't know how true that
is imagine being so angry and disgusted
that you literally go into a seizure
that's pretty out there anyway during
his initial years of exploring art belma
was exposed to what's now known as the
da movement an early 20th century art
movement that emerged in reaction to the
horrors of the first world war this no
doubt would have greatly moved bmer as
he himself was growing increasingly
disillusioned with the political climate
of Germany particularly the rise of Nazi
propaganda under Adolf
Hitler he also encountered The Works of
artists like George gross Rudolph Scher
and John Hartfield and attended lectures
at the bow House Academy of which
contributed heavily to belma's
developing artistic
style by 1933 however the ever looming
takeover of fash ISM in Germany was
beginning to affect even the art scene
as the Nazi party denounced modern art
as degenerate and banned the work of
many artists including George
Cross by this time as well belma's
father who was a devoted Nazi himself
was becoming an unbearable presence to
the new artist who bitterly despised
fascism perhaps primarily because of its
connection to his
father thus that same year belma cut
tized to his father entirely and made a
vow to refrain from any useful activity
such as working as an illustrator that
might assist the Nazi regime
demonstrating his bitter political
conscience What followed would be the
very start of his controversial and
complex creative Endeavors starting with
his first symbolic rejection of a nais
in the form of a doll a new life
Obsession that belma would describe as
quote an artificial girl who was capable
capable of creating the heights of
passion even inventing new
desires end
quote so on that note I hope you guys
are ready for this because we're heading
straight into the deep end here so get
your swimming cozies of challenging
themes
[Music]
on Hans bmer DEA or the doll in English
is a series of photographs first
showcased in
1934 of a certain sculpture that delves
deep into The Uncanny and explores
themes of sexuality fetishism and the
fragmented female body this doll was not
intended as a children's toy but rather
as an artistic expression of his inner
psyche and a reaction to the repressed
social and political atmosphere in
Germany he photographed the doll in
various poses and settings creating a
series of disturbing and often erotic
images upon the doll's completion belma
proceeded to take many photographs of it
posing it in various settings in this
photograph for example a breast part of
a stomach and the buttocks are exposed
while the angle of a head gazing at the
viewer over her shoulder makes her face
uncomfortably lifelike her face
essentially serves the role of a blank
mask allowing a viewer to project their
own character into the doll and feel
what naturally
arises however even in this single
photograph you can't help but get a
sense that the doll is very much alive
with its own personality and
Trauma the fragmented nature of a doll
is Central to belma's exploration of a
female body he disassembles and
reassembles the doll's limbs often
removing certain body parts alog
together
this fragmentation challenges the
traditional ideal of the unified and
perfect female form presenting it as a
malleable and disjointed
entity as a result this can easily be
interpreted as a commentary on the
objectification of women and the
reduction of their bodies to fetishized
Parts the erotic undertones of the doll
are painfully clear to see the doll is
often posed in sexually suggestive
positions a body twisted and contorted
this overt sexuality was considered
subversive in the context of the 1930s
in Germany where strict social norms and
censorship
prevailed belma's work challenged these
Norms pushing the boundaries of
acceptable representation and forcing
viewers to confront their own desires
and taboos the psychological and
political context of dupa cannot be
ignored bma's own troubled childhood and
experiences in a broken War torn Germany
with the rise of a Nazis on the horizon
likely influenced his artistic
expression the doll can be seen as a
manifestation of his personal anxieties
and
frustrations however there is also a far
more disturbing aspect of this work
which I haven't mentioned yet according
to what I researched the initial
inspiration for belma's First doll was
allegedly and I want to emphasize that
word again alleged ly his unfulfilled
sexual desire for his underage cousin
Ursula neski who was then living with
him and his wife he created the doll
from wood glue plaster and straw in his
studio with an obsession to create what
he called a quote real object to be
possessed moreover belma's interest in
girlish things is made more explicit and
outright questionable in an element of
the work that in the end never came to
fruition which was his original
intention to project a film through the
doll's Naval his adult ocation of child
sexuality created nothing short of an
uproar when he reflected in his essay
titled memories of the doll theme of
seeing and I quote young girls whose
mx's legs and pink pleats frolicked
around him resurrecting childhood themes
was certainly nothing unheard of within
art at a time but belmer instead appears
to be res res Ting a childhood darkness
which unsurprisingly has invited many
allegations of deviancy and of course
the p word against him to this day but
now I think this is a good time to
remind us to take this allegation with a
pinch of salt as this information
surrounding his desires for his cousin
or any underage child has neither been
fully confirmed or
debunked one thing we can certainly take
away from this though is his
unmistakable impact deopa continues to
provoke can challenge viewers today it
has been interpreted through various
lenses including psychoanalysis feminism
and
surrealism on top of the controversial
aspect we just discussed some see it as
a misogynistic work that objectifies the
female body others argue that it
subverts traditional Notions of beauty
and sexuality and in fact actually
empowers women by reclaiming their
bodies from
objectification with either side of the
argument seemingly being being just as
valid as the other I suppose it goes
without saying that where you lean on
this work is entirely up to you
regardless of interpretation or what
your personal takeaway is dupa remains a
significant work of art it is disturbing
yet magnetizing horrific yet also
captivating whether viewed as
misogynistic or subversive is
exploration of The Uncanny fragmentation
sexuality and the female body continues
to resonate with viewers sparking
debates and challenging our
understanding of representation and
[Music]
desire shortly after the impact of his
first doll the surrealist movement began
to take
notice in fact it was around this time
that he spent a short time in Paris
where we got to know many fellow
surrealists like Andre Bretton Paul eloa
and HRI priso by 1935 H belmer created a
new series of photographs posing his
doll that you see here now in over 100
different scenarios titled Jud de laup
or games of a doll in
English this new doll had a far greater
flexibility than the original doll he
made for his series the year before she
had arms two pair pairs of legs four
spherical breasts three pelvises and a
torso complete with female genitalia
that could be assembled in a manner of
ways the doll also had her own extensive
wardrobe wigs and
shoes and the most notable example out
of these many photographs is a scene
that feels riddled with threat and
anxiety the mutated form of the doll
consisting of two torsos severed and
stuck together next to a tree Tre
appears to be both blissfully unaware of
its surroundings and completely
vulnerable which makes a menacing
appearance of a shadowy figure with a
long dark coat and boots in the
background staring ominously at the
disfigured entity all the more
unsettling when first hearing the title
with the word games in it you may get
the implication that B Doll is a willing
character in this scenario but from what
the viewer sees it would appear this is
not the case at all the deformed doll is
nothing but a marionette in this scene
with the shadowy figure pulling a
strings from afar the only games implied
here therefore are the potentially sick
and twisted games of a mysterious vois
Puppet Master in the
backgrounds much like dupe we are left
with many uncomfortable interpretations
to pick from Pandora's Box here the
hints of disturbing references to
childhoods are often raised with the
body of a doll left deliberately
ambiguous the features appear to be
mostly feminine but it's unclear whether
it could be a child or an adult woman
however most experts believe that the
style of white socks and black shoes
that the doll is wearing suggests
indication of Youth as for the bizarre
choices of color in this Photograph it
is documented that belma chose to
carefully hand tint each photograph
himself and his choice of the pink and
yellow dyes was a nod to the erotic
postcard cards of a time but the choice
of red for the body of a doll suggests
terrible violation while the yellow
tinted Forest suggests a feeling of
sickness or perversion the overall
feeling one gets when viewing his photo
is one that feels uncomfortably unwanted
almost like gazing into the scene of a
fairy tale that has been utterly
degraded where innocence is looked upon
without compassion and instead with
lecherousness and depravity
aside from this one example the more you
look through the series of games of the
doll the more you begin to see a
disturbing Story come to life the doll
is usually shown in a domestic setting
like a bedroom a kitchen on the stairs
or in a Cellar the atmosphere of each
photograph is incredibly telling a
carpet beater indicates that the doll is
a victim of physical abuse whilst in
other photographs were presented with a
doll hanging on a hook or parts of her
dismantled body left discarded on the
stairs there is a constant threat of
torture in this series or perhaps what
we're seeing is a terrible aftermath of
it regardless we couldn't be further
away from an idealized depiction of a
female form least of all the Aryan ideal
type of a healthy fertile woman that was
constantly glamorized in Germany at the
time here everything is damaged and
taken advantage of to depict a far more
horrible and unspeakable reality ity of
what the female body endures when faced
with the most sadistic of
[Music]
intentions Hans bma's seop poot
completed in
1939 is a striking and unsettling work
that exemplifies the artist's
fascination with the human form
eroticism and the
subconscious this oilon canvas painting
depicts a Fantastical creature
resembling a seop pod a class of marine
animals that includes octopuses and
squids however this creature is not a
mere representation of marine life but
rather a metaphoric depiction of a human
form in a way that is both distorted and
fragmented inspired from his fixation on
octopus like creatures and his previous
experimentation with his dog
seop pod marks the start of a motif that
would become a dominating theme for the
rest of his life he often depicted this
head- footed creature as a head or two
heads with legs sometimes wearing
stockings and
heels set against a backdrop that seems
to resemble a large fishing net the seop
pod's body is a tangle of Limbs with the
Torso as a
pivot the head of this creature is a
bulbous mass of senu and flesh the the
skin is pale smooth and iridescent
giving it another worldly
quality this bizarre Fusion of human and
animal Anatomy challenges conventional
Notions of beauty and creates a sense of
unease in the viewer almost as if
leaving us with an unpleasant reminder
that much like the creatures in the wild
that we hardly consider to be remotely
similar to us our bodies and flesh
hardly differ at all aside from this
theop pod's contorted body and sexual
organ
sugestivo with eroticism and desire the
creature's form is both alluring and
repulsive reflecting the complex and
often contradictory nature of human
sexuality it's often been said that it
effectively reflects belma's obsessive
desire to create a male female hybrid
recalling a surrealist idea that the
ultimate surreality is love or more
succinctly the fusion of self with
another and William Shakespeare's
reference to sex as quote the Beast with
two
backs as you can probably tell by now
belma had a complex and often troubled
relationship with women and his art
often explored themes of female
sexuality and
objectification theop pod's fragmented
body and multiple limbs can be seen as a
representation of a female form as both
alluring and
threatening let's also not forget the
date in which which this painting was
completed during this time the second
world war was right around the corner
and belma had fled Nazi Germany due to
his opposition to the regime and was
living in Exile in Paris therefore it
may not be too outside the Realms of
possibility that this work could be seen
as a reflection of the artist's anxiety
and alienation as well as a commentary
on the dehumanization and violence of
the time although these are just post-
inote theories of the paintings overall
meaning with a definitive answer being
left to our own interpretation seapod is
still a powerful and challenging work
nonetheless his exploration of eroticism
the subconscious and the fragility of a
human form Still Remains relevant today
making it a significant contribution to
the surrealist movement
[Music]
during the last three decades of the
artist's life Hans bmer devoted much of
his creative time and effort towards
producing pornographic Works dealing
with sadist erotic sexual
transgressions as such he was considered
an ideal choice to illustrate a
graphically pornographic novel by George
batti called the story of the
ey B ey first published the book in 1928
under the pseudonym Lord ouch in 1947 a
new edition was released featuring 12
etchings by belma the etchings are not
direct illustrations of scenes from a
Nolla but rather visual interpretations
of its themes and
motifs bma's etchings are known for
their disturbing and surreal imagery
often featuring dismembered or distorted
female bodies in the story of the eye
his etchings amplify the noela themes of
eroticism transgression and the
exploration of taboo
subjects they create a visual
counterpart to bti text intensifying the
disturbing and unsettling atmosphere of
the
story as a story narrates an eyeball is
removed from a corpse and includes a
notorious scene in which a teenage
seductress asks quote milk is for the
cat isn't it do you dare me to sit
in the sorer then I lay down at her feet
without her stirring and for the first
time I saw her pink and dark flesh
Cooling in the white milk end
quote belma's etchings often incorporate
symbolic elements such as eyes eggs and
spheres which are Central to the nolla's
imagery these visual metaphors offer the
reader an opportunity to experience with
visceral intensity fexs underlying
themes of Desire obsession and the
relationship between sexuality and
violence the combination of bti's text
and belma's etchings creates a
multi-sensory experience for the reader
the visual and textual elements
complement and reinforce each other
making a themes of the novel more
visceral and
impactful however belma's Prince to
illustrate the text pushed the
boundaries of these themes even further
in terms of creative imagery for example
in addition to a surrealist Trope of a
vagina as an eye he drew a young girl
watching a phus emerge from her vagina
that was not even an image in bti's text
but undeniably captured the spirit of it
both bti's text and belma etchings share
a fascination with the body they explore
the boundaries of acceptable or
conventional sexual behavior and delve
into the darkest corners of human desire
the etchings visually represent the
psychological states of the characters
and a Nolla their obsessions and their
transgressive
acts in addition both a Nolla and the
etchings delve into the realm of the
unconscious and the taboo they explore
the hidden desires and impulses that lie
beneath the surface of civilized society
revealing a darker aspects of human
nature as I briefly mentioned the ey is
a central Motif in both for text and
images it symbolizes the Gaze desire and
the power of vision in belma's etchings
the ey is often depicted as a
disembodied object emphasizing its vois
and fetishistic
qualities overall Hans balmer's etchings
in the 1947 edition of the story of the
eye Are Not Mere illustrations but
rather an integral part of a reading
experience they deepen the novel's
themes intensify its emotional impact
and challenge a reader to confront the
darker aspects of human desire and
experience that which often lays in
Waiting under the
surface the combination of B's
transgressive text and bma's disturbing
imagery creates a powerful and
unsettling work of art that collectively
provoke insight into the more ugly
Realms of desire as well as Fascinate
those who dare to explore such a side to
humanity that so often is brushed under
the carpet
after the second world war had come to a
close Hans belmer had all but turned
away from Germany completely renouncing
his German nationality has set out to
explore the themes of love and sexuality
to even further Heights than before and
like I mentioned in the beginning of
this video he may have eventually taken
it a step too far even within the Realms
of dark themed art and it all started
with just one encounter with another
fellow surrealist artist named Unica
zern after meeting each other in the
1950s at a surrealist exhibition they
began A Love Affair and a disturbing
creative partnership that would last 16
years as documented in many biographical
accounts in addition to illustrating
books he drew countless pornographic
works of Unica her genitals and visual
orgies of her body parts he even once
wrote that a man in love with a woman
was and I quote a hemaphrodite and his
obsessive desire was to essentially
merge and become one with her knowing
what we know of belma's past and his
brief spell of crossdressing and the
desire to be in a woman's body it would
not surprise me if this past served as a
catalyst towards this Obsession later in
life to merge both male and female
together to create a complex Fantastical
Beast of passion embracing itself and
completing
itself this surreal image titled Unica
bound created in
1958 is probably the most infamous
example you'll come across it portrays
Z's own body bound tightly with a string
her too the sole focus of this
composition is devoid of Limbs and a
head reducing a to a fragmented and
Anonymous
form the photograph's darkness and use
of high contrast emphasize the body's
Contours and the lines created by The
Binding string this string cutting into
xan's flesh creates an uneasy sense of
tension the lack of a face or limbs
further dehumanizes her turning her into
little more than a lump of meat subject
to belma's Artistic
manipulation the image can be
interpreted in various ways some see it
as a reflection of belma's fascination
with a female body and his desire to
control and manipulate it others view it
as a commentary on the objectification
of women and the violence often
inflicted upon them for photograph's
ambiguity allows for multiple readings
making it a complex and
thought-provoking piece unicab bound is
part of a series of many photographs
spma made with zern these images often
feature zern in various States of dress
and bondage reflecting belma's
exploration of themes of eroticism and
fetishism this series may very well also
reflect for couple's allegedly
tumultuous relationship marked by both
love and Obsession the photograph was
published on a cover of a surrealist
magazine in 1958 solidifying its place
within the surrealist movement
surrealism's emphasis on the
subconscious dreams and the exploration
of taboo subjects resonates with the
disturbing yet alluring qualities of
unab bound unab bound remains a
controversial and influential photograph
his disturbing imagery has sparked
debate about the boundaries of arts and
the ethics of representing the female
body however it has also been celebrated
for its aesthetic power and its
contribution to the surrealist movement
but what really makes this one
photograph uncomfortable is hearing in
detail what exactly the creation of his
image and tales has been documented on
the reputable artists biography site
theartstory.org
quote as part of a collaboration
involving SNM imagery such as binding
bondage and straps zern was at pains to
present it as
consensual however her words are
disturbing she recalled that he was
infinitely gentle but she also said that
the person who was sketched by him or
photo phed by him participates with
belma in the abomination of herself her
ability to consent to be manipulated in
this way is drawn into question as she
suffered from schizophrenia and was
frequently institutionalized and later
committed end
quote this obviously begs the question
was belma really doing this for the sake
of art or was he simply using it as a
means to fulfill some sadistic fantasy
by manipulating a mentally unstable
woman as someone who appreciates
challenging themes in arts even I can't
help but feel that this was an extremely
questionable act on belma's part in any
case the photograph has inspired
numerous artists and photographers who
have continued to explore the themes of
a body identity and power
dynamics unic abound serves as a
reminder of a complex and often
disturbing ways in which the female body
has been represented and interpreted
throughout art history but let's not kid
ourselves here it is one thing to create
dolls for such imagery but to subject a
fragile minded woman to such a project
you can't help but question the moral
compass of the
artist finally a i' like us to take a
look at bma's project known as Assad
from
1961 Assad is a series of 10 etchings
that serve as a visual homage to the
infamous Marquee dad a French Aristocrat
and writer Infamous for his obscene
pornographic stories belma's etchings
are characterized by their grotesque and
warped imagery where orifices and
genitalia are now no more different than
hands and feet with these figures
bodies and faces are contorted
disassembled and reassembled in ways
that defy anatomical Norms to a point
where you're not even sure if you're
seeing two separate beings entwined or
if they're one hybrid body of both male
and female limbs are elongated torsos
twisted and heads often replaced with
inanimate
objects these figures are frequently
depicted in sexually suggestive poses
their bodies trans formed into
instruments of both Pleasure and Pain
overall the collection of work appears
cold rather than erotic the etchings are
rendered in a stark and detailed Style
with belma's meticulous Line work
emphasizing the maab nature of his
subjects the use of Kiara skuro which in
art terminology means a technique of
contrasting light and Shadow creates a
sense of drama and depth within the
compositions the Mary dad's influence on
this series is evident in both the
visual and thematic aspects of the
etchings dad's writings often depicted
graphic scenes of sexual violence and
psychological manipulation and belma's
fragmented figures can be seen as visual
manifestations of these
themes bulma's work also Echoes des's
exploration of the relationship between
power and pleasure the contorted bodies
in these etchings can be interpreted as
symbols of both submission and Defiance
reflecting the complex power dynamics
inherent in Dad's
narratives would even comment on
this series saying quote I admire desad
very much especially his idea that
violence towards the loved one can tell
us more about the anatomy of Desire than
the simple Act of Love end quote in
other words it seems that for belma
anatomy was desire in itself rather than
the representation of it again as we've
already seen sex power and the
subconscious desire were all Central to
bma's work but here his experiments in
reforming the female body seem to have
reached their Pinnacle although these
drawings are technically brilliant and
beautifully executed the content Still
Remains incredibly disturbing the Deep
personalization of these bodies is so
raw and
Unapologetic they seem utterly helpless
against those who look upon them these
series of etchings again were created
during his relationship with fellow
artist
unican and given a time period in which
these emerged I think it's worth
mentioning that by this stage the
relationship and mental well-being of
both belma and zern was reaching
worrying
extremes before I mentioned that belma
had a strange yet strong desire to
become one with his lover but little did
he know as we'll now come to realize I
how careful he needed to be for what he
wished for in a 1965 book The Man of
Jasmine Impressions from a mental
illness Zone tales of the hallucinations
obsessions and delusions of her
schizophrenia after a decade of repeated
spells and asylums while also living
with belma her illness had so affected
him that 3 years later after Assad's
etchings were completed belma wrote that
her mental illness had quote transferred
to his own body it seems that with a
sense of irony that's hard to ignore he
had gotten exactly what he desired to
merge with zern but at a terrible and
tragic cost in 1970 Zen took her own
life by jumping from the sixth floor of
their Paris apartment only 5 years later
belma died as well and was buried beside
her
[Music]
so I'm actually struggling to bring this
video to a satisfying conclusion to be
honest I've done many rewrites and
different approaches to try and paint
Hans belmer in a positive light but as
I've mentioned his creative Legacy does
leave a bit of taste in my mouth to a
point where I'm not even sure I fully
respect belmer as an artist at all
it's clear to see that he was a very
unique Visionary with such a toxic
upbringing in both his country and
family home but I'm sure in many ways it
contributed heavily to all the dark
themes in his art but the problem is by
the time he met unic Kazar his
creativity seemed to have based on the
information and biographical accounts we
have available turned into something far
more dangerous and
irresponsible let's take a look at
someone else I've covered on this
channel like Marina Abramovich for
example much like belma she too explored
incredibly dark and controversial themes
that blur the line between art and well
not art let's just say some of her work
has sparked outrage and disgust time and
time again but here's a difference
Abramovich up until now anyway has not
once put the lives or safety of anyone
else in jeopardy whilst doing so even
her most controversial performance art
piece Rhythm zero did not really put
anyone else at risk apart from herself
because she knew full well it was her
own conscious decision her own creative
output even when she did get involved
with others in her performance arts like
her famous partnership with Uli it was
very clear since day one that it was
100% consensual and both were extremely
like-minded and shared similar
goals now if we compare it to belma and
his partnership with zern the impression
we're left with is very unsettlingly
different
just one quick search for information on
zern will reveal the mental torment she
went through in life with a
schizophrenia depression and bipolar
disorder and as someone who is covered
artists on this channel who too have
suffered from terrible mental illness
this really doesn't sit well with me at
all to be truthful I don't want this
video to end up being a sensationalized
unbiased documentry demonizing belmer to
be honest you're probably asking
yourself right now why even bother
covering artist at all why give him the
time of day well as I've been working
through this video I've realized that
when it comes to dark themes and arts we
need to tread so very very carefully and
I think this is something worth
emphasizing to fellow art fans and
artists who enjoy the style of art as
much as I do dark themed art can be very
lifechanging it can give people a safe
Outlet to escape from trauma or maybe
even understand their trauma better but
it goes without saying I'm sure that it
can be so very prone to be misunderstood
and reviled making this type of art so
delicate and precious and one which we
should approach carefully and
skillfully the fact is Art is an
expression is a creative and
constructive means to express something
to be observed and experienced by others
in a way that is relatable but it should
also be a safe place one that Echoes
trauma rather than replicates it in
other words it should never bring harm
to others in order to get a message
across if you're truly an artist you'll
know that this is totally unnecessary
anyway but instead should you feel your
creative output only exacerbates your
trauma dark thoughts and mental illness
your desires Etc then the results of
that could be utterly tragic not only to
yourself but to others as well in a way
I'm sort of thankful for bma's story as
it leaves us with a very important
reminder for aspiring artists out there
that to avoid both the extremes of
limitation and the extremes of straight
up taking it too far is so important
when it comes to preserving the
Integrity of this genre of Art and this
is not me trying to turn this into a
debate of what counts his art and what
doesn't all I'm trying to say is please
don't use creativity as an excuse to
bring others at risk especially when
said other is not mentally stable I can
imagine with various great people
telling you how brilliant your artists
how integral you are to an artistic
community and how much money or
attention your artists receiving can
make anyone develop a sense of inflated
ego and a semi- delusional outlook on
life that blurs a line between art and
reality but it's so vital to be aware of
this tread lightly when creating
Darkly that's now going to be an
official new saying of mine and on top
of that let's address the issue with
representing the human body in art or
more specifically in this case the
female form I feel this too is an
incredibly sensitive subject especially
nowadays in the midst of many heated
debates over body image and body shaming
this again is a topic that needs to be
handled very carefully even in art and
although I've addressed both
perspectives of Hans bma's
representation of a female form I can't
help but lean more towards the idea that
the artist was in fact objectifying
women in this case
this is simply because belma's personal
ambition that he mentioned frequently
about wanting to create an object to be
possessed those are his exact words and
I mean the clue is in the word object
need I say more and what did the object
end up looking like in the vast majority
of his work a broken fragile and lowly
female that is waiting to be used not
exactly the ideal approach to create art
that supposedly criticizes a problem of
female objectification
this is also not just because I think
he's gender appropriating if that's even
a term like isn't appropriate for a male
artist to provide commentary on these
themes or something like that but from
what we learned about belma's personal
life that he was very open about his
desires for women was far from healthy
leaving these images with quite an
unpleasant effect as someone who loves
exploring the lives of artists to better
understand their Arts this is a prime
example of why sometimes is better that
I don't the less I know the better this
time round whether my impressions are
accurate or not I'll let you decide but
I think female artists who are victims
of essay or abuse of any kind just
evidently speaking create far more
powerful works of art that come from a
genuine place and leave a far more eye
openening impact with bma's Arts i
instead just get the feeling I've
discovered some sex weirdos internet
history and that I shouldn't be looking
at any of these I don't know if I can
make it more clear than that at this
point so even though this is just my
personal opinion and I'm dragging this
out way longer than I normally do I hope
I presented belma's work in the most
balanced way possible so that I don't
influence your own opinion too much but
now leaving all of that aside just for a
moment is there anything I do appreciate
about his work well there's one thing
that I have to confess regardless of
what kind of person the artist was the
art itself is still more morbidly
fascinating and it seems this complex
magnetic pull to his work is not unique
to me either as a significant figure in
a surrealist movement and 20th century
art his creations and his possible
intentions behind them have been
reinterpreted and debated resulting in
his reputation and impact growing ever
since the feminist movement in
particular took an understandably dim
view of his objectification of women as
Rudolph Uley points out in surrealism
and misogyny quote these are not just
bodies these are always female figures
end quote subsequently belma's imagery
was co-opted and used by the 1990s Riot
girl movements most iconically by
courney love in her disturbing child
woman Kinder hor aesthetic but this
influence has not stopped there the 2003
film love objects for example contains
clear references to bma's work including
the protagonist's obsessive relationship
with the sex doll and the use of belma's
name as a leading character Lisa belma
even anime has taken a leaf from belma's
book such as Ghost in the Shell 2
innocence a 2004 anime film that
features elements of belma's erotic and
uncanny dolls director mamoru isi has
even referred to belma's dolls as a
direct inspiration for the film
therefore if there's one takeaway we can
leave with from all this this sort of
influence on other creatives can't have
been by chance or mere coincidence for
such a discussion or debate to Gar a
momentum for anything to be worth
keeping in the history books it needs to
be of relevance over the generations and
perhaps these uncomfortable depictions
of sex and desire were just belmer
pointing out what was already there
something laying dormant in a human
experience completely hidden silently
alongside everyday society that every so
often is let loose like many things in
life there is always a slight flicker of
Truth glowing in these themes it would
be quite naive to think that our
primordial obsession with flesh is
something that could not easily consume
and negatively influence certain
individuals sometimes to a point where
it affects our purest nature if left
unchecked and
unexamined sadistic sexual imagery is
also not a one-off anomaly in arts that
belongs only to Hans BMA by the way my
favorite artist of all time Francis
Bacon also lived a very tumultuous life
with his partners and had a very
distorted view of sex that can be seen
in multiple examples of his work another
favorite who have covered on his channel
HR geeka and many of his artworks from
just one glance are extremely sexually
suggestive with many phallic objects and
twisted sexualized bodies that don't
differ too greatly from belma's work in
any case belma's art delves into the
taboo and the Forbidden provoking strong
emotional responses and sparking
important conversations about the nature
of art representation and societal norms
and as much as I hate to admit it I
can't help but admire that aspect of his
creativity as it still undeniably
challenges traditional Notions of beauty
and confronts onlookers like me with the
inherent contradictions within human in
existence whether one finds belma's art
disturbing or enlightening there is
little doubt that his work is left a
lasting impact his exploration of the
darker aspects of Human Experience
forces us to confront uncomfortable
truths and question our own perceptions
which is one thing that art can do very
perfectly serving as a catalyst for
dialogue and reflection leaving viewers
with a deeper understanding of a
complicated and often contradictory
nature of human
[Music]
lust thank you for watching this video I
hope it's been of some interest and I
really look forward to seeing the
discussions and your personal takes in
the comments it's one thing me going
blah blah blah in these videos but it's
also a good to approach these themes in
art with some investigation and share
your own thoughts so again I look
forward to reading what you have to say
before I go it's that time again as
always for artist corner here I get to
share some artwork sent into me by one
of my viewers and today's featured
artist is Angie math born in the early
'70s Angie grew up on the east coast of
the US near
Philadelphia since then she has moved
all over the country from the south to
the southwest and finally to the Pacific
Northwest Angie is a perfect example of
a multimedia artist artist specializing
in watercolor and oil paintings
sculpture and she's also an incredibly
talented tattoo artist her themes are
always dark forboding and
mesmerizing for example she is a
beautifully powerful series of paintings
that she completed during quarantine in
the covid-19 pandemic that betray her
own personal experiences during this
Haring time including the death of her
father who fell victim to it she also
shared with me her gripping experiences
with coming face to face with crime
scene photos that she took as a
foundation for one of her artistic
projects quote many years ago I was
interviewed by Crime Library I was then
working on a series of crime scene
detail or paintings zooming into what I
felt was the most disturbing section of
a police crime scene image and focusing
on it alone out of context usually not
for gory imagery as much as a spill
carton of milk lolium with a bit of
blood and the like end quote her style
of work is so vast and vared though I am
particularly drawn to a skeletal
sculptures that often present an uneasy
mutant animal as if one has discovered a
fossil of an ancient Creature From
Another World is truly a fascinating
imagination that she has I urge you all
to head over to her website and have a
look through her work and maybe even get
tattooed by her I know I'm tempted as
someone who loves this style of tattoos
myself please follow the link you see on
screen or click the link
below if you too are an artist of any
kind and a fan of a channel who fancies
being part of his little dark art
community here on YouTube I'd love to
meet you simply send an email to Blind
dweller gmail.com with examples of your
work and a brief description about
yourself to potentially feature in a
video finally as always a huge thank you
to all of my my Patron and channel
members supporters here's a special
shout out to all of my top paying
donators Leslie Simon Lori Gallardo P
Pera mil Z gra Vlad ziv Tyler Butler
Eric Lam marker Dave MC molale H's Place
eok Lea flowers Calvin Kai the new on
gone 24 aiser Charlie sanesi Ken B and
Carol
H that's all from me then again I hope
this video gave you some food for
thought and I'll see you in the next one
soon keep being creative and bye for now